Tutorial on Developer's Day, RISC-V Summit, Santa Clara, October 22, 2025

================================================================
Title: Learn to Design and Verify a 6-stage pipelined RISC-V CPU

Duration: 2 hours (120 minutes)

Instructor: Rishiyur S. Nikhil, Ph.D., CTO and co-founder, Bluepec, Inc.

================================================================
Outline:

In this hands-on tutorial, we will study microarchitectural principles
in a 6-stage pipelined RISC-V CPU, including branch prediction,
register hazard management, speculative memory ops, and concurrent
execution units.

We will, together, study the design code (written in the High Level
Hardware Description Language Bluespec BSV) for an actual, implemented
CPU, called "Fife".

By abstracting RISC-V functional features from microarchitectural
features (pipelining), we will simultaneously develop an unpipelined,
implementation called "Drum" that can serve both as a verification
reference for Fife and as a place to experiment with new features such
as accelerators and custom instructions (Drum is a kind of
synthesizable "digital twin" for Fife).

We will compile Fife and Drum into simulation executables, and have
them execute RISC-V binaries.

We will set up a verification harness for Fife and Drum using
U.Cambridge's "TestRIG" which does "Property-Based Testing"
(cf. Haskell Quickcheck).  We will verify them against the official
Sail RISC-V Formal Specification.

We will describe an FPGA flow and demonstrate Fife and Drum executing
RISC-V binaries on an FPGA in the cloud.

All the material for this tutorial (free PDF textbook, free and
open-source full code) will be available at:

    https://github.com/rsnikhil/Learn_Bluespec_and_RISCV_Design

================================================================
Prerequisites and non-prerequisites:

We do expect a prior understanding of an ISA (assembly language and
machine code) for RISC-V or any other ISA.

We do not expect any prior experience with, or any prior exposure to
hardware design (such as Verilog/SystemVerilog/VHDL) or CPU pipeline
microarchitecture.

For the full hands-on experience (strongly recommended), we encourage
installing from one to four free and open-source tools in advance of
the tutorial.  Detailed installation instructions will be provided by
September 22, 2025 at:

    https://github.com/rsnikhil/Tutorial_RISCV_Summit_2025

================================================================
